pages: consolidate private-registry how-to (#1260)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/pages/src/content/how-to/npm-private-registry.md

# Install Private Packages

> Cloudflare Pages supports custom package registries, allowing you to include private dependencies in your application. While this walkthrough may focus specifically on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), the Node package manager and registry, the same approach can be applied to other registry tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare Pages supports custom package registries, allowing you to include private dependencies in your application. While this walkthrough focuses specifically on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), the Node package manager and registry, the same approach can be applied to other registry tools.
```

> Pages supports custom package registries, allowing you to include private dependencies in your application. While this walkthrough may focus specifically on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), the Node package manager and registry, the same approach can be applied to other registry tools.

Reviewer 2: Pages -> Cloudflare Pages (fine for other references, but for the first one we should use the full name)

## Private Modules on the npm Registry

When your application is **only** using private modules from the npm registry, then this section is for you!

Simply add a new [Environment Variable](/platform/build-configuration#environment-variables) named `NPM_TOKEN` and paste the [read-only token you created](#registry-access-token) as its value.

<Aside type="warning">

**Important:** Add the `NPM_TOKEN` variable to both the "Production" and "Preview" environments.

</Aside>

> That's it! By default, `npm` looks for an environment variable named `NPM_TOKEN` and _because_ we didn't define a [custom registry endpoint](#custom-registry-endpoints), the npm registry is assumed. Local development should continue to work as expected, provided that you and your teammates are authenticated with npm accounts (see `npm whoami` and `npm login`) that have been granted access to the private package(s).

Reviewer 2: Nit: informational tone - remove "That's it"

Author: Fair :)

## Custom Registry Endpoints

> When multiple registries are in use, a project will need to define its own root-level [`.npmrc`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/npmrc) configuration file. An exampile `.npmrc` file may look like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When multiple registries are in use, a project will need to define its own root-level [`.npmrc`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/npmrc) configuration file. An example `.npmrc` file may look like this:
```

Author: thanks!

```ini
@foobar:registry=https://npm.pkg.github.com
//registry.npmjs.org/:_authToken=$TOKEN_FOR_NPM
//npm.pkg.github.com/:_authToken=$TOKEN_FOR_GITHUB
```

Here, all packages under the `@foobar` scope are directed towards the GitHub Packages registry. Then the registries are assigned their own access tokens via their respective environment variable names.

<Aside>

**Note:** You only need to define an Access Token for the npm registry (see `TOKEN_FOR_NPM` in our example) if it is hosting private packages that your application requires.

</Aside>

Your Pages project must then have the matching [Environment Variables](/platform/build-configuration#environment-variables) defined for all environments. In our example, that means `TOKEN_FOR_NPM` must contain [the read-only npm token](#registry-access-token) value and `TOKEN_FOR_GITHUB` must contain its own [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-token).

> ### Pages vs Local Installation

Reviewer 2: I think this should be more descriptive like "Using `.npmrc`. for local development" or "Creating a custom `.npmrc` file for Pages"

Author: It's specifically about a disparity between environments. There will (almost) always be a `.npmrc` file when in need of this section, but this area is about keeping those differences separate

Author: "Managing Pages vs Local Environments" ?

Reviewer: What about just "Managing Local Environments"?

Author: hmm.. "Managing Multiple Environments" or "Managing Environment Configurations"?

To me, "local environments" sounds like I would have multiple setups on my own dev machine

In the event that your local development no longer works with your new `.npmrc` file, you will need to add some additional changes:

1. Rename the Pages-compliant `.npmrc` file to `.npmrc.pages`. This should be referencing environment variables.

2. Restore your previous `.npmrc` file – the version that was previously working for you and your teammates.

3. Create a new `is-pages.js` file in your project's root directory:

    ```js
    // Pages always has `NODE_VERSION` defined

>     if (process.env.NODE_VERSION == null) process.exit(1);

Reviewer: This seems like it could shoot someone in the foot - if they have `NODE_VERSION` set locally, wouldn't this evaluate to `true`? We need to add `process.env.CF_PAGES` or something like that 🤔

Author: Yeah, it would. Unfortunately it was the best smoke test I could find in the Pages ENV. I raised something internally about needing a `PAGES` env var
